README.rst, before:

.. image:: https://badge.fury.io/py/django-basecrm.svg
    :target: https://badge.fury.io/py/django-basecrm

.. image:: https://travis-ci.org/yunojuno/django-basecrm.svg?branch=master
    :target: https://travis-ci.org/yunojuno/django-basecrm

==============
Django Basecrm
==============

A Django app that connects to the `BaseCRM API <https://dev.futuresimple.com/>`_ (v2)

A lightweight Django app to wrap the `requests <http://docs.python-requests.org/en/latest/>`_ library and provide easy endpoints for the BaseCRM API.

Note that this is not a **complete** client SDK; it's a helper app that has the functionality we needed. Contributions gratefully accepted.

The ``utils`` module provides a ``request()`` method that allows less config-heavy calls to the BaseCRM API, relying on settings while still allowing all options to be passed and/or overridden, both for ``requests`` and for the API endpoint itself. There are also helpers to ``parse()`` and ``count()`` the results (``parse`` strips the metadata, while ``count`` returns the server-side count pre pagination).

The ``helpers`` module also provides some higher level methods for interacting with the ``contacts``, ``deals``, ``pipeline`` and ``stages`` endpoints (and the top level ``__init__`` module exposes these). There's also a setting for retrieving and caching the stages for a pipeline (only 1 supported currently).

Features
--------

* Low configuration overhead, so it's easy to call API methods from anywhere in your code
* Pre-submission validation for ``CREATE`` and ``UPDATE`` calls will raise catchable custom exceptions
* Flexible serializers make creating BaseCRM objects from Django ORM objects trivial

Current Limitations
-------------------

* Only a single pipeline is currently supported.
* Stages and pipelines are, by default, cached at the app level (in memory), with no cachebusting method exposed.
* No ``DELETE`` calls are implemented
* ``CREATE`` and ``UPDATE`` are only implemented on ``contacts`` and ``deals`` endpoints
* ``GET`` is only implemented for ``contacts``, ``deals``, ``notes``, ``pipelines`` and ``stages``
* Serializers are only used one-way; they do not deserialize
* Probably many others...

Installation
------------
You can install Django-BaseCRM from PyPI with...::

    pip install --upgrade django-basecrm

Setup
-----
At a minimum, you will need to add the following to your ``settings.py``::

    BASECRM_API_URL='https://api.getbase.com/v2/'
    BASECRM_API_KEY=xxxx
    BASECRM_INSTANTIATE_ON_START=False # If this is set to True, the pipeline ID and stage IDs will be retrieved when the app is started for the first time, and then held in memory

...putting your own API key instead of ``xxx``, obv. Note that the API url is fully qualified, including **the protocol** and **trailing slash**.

You'll also need to add this app to your ``INSTALLED_APPS``; it doesn't really matter where (in terms of ordering):::

    INSTALLED_APPS = [
        ...
        'django_basecrm',
        ...
    ]

Next, you'll probably want to extend the serializers to cater for your models.

For example, let's imagine you have an app called ``people`` that contains a your custom ``User`` profile model called ``Person``, that represents the contacts you want to track in Base.

Let's also imagine that your model has an attribute for ``info``, a ``@property`` for ``phone`` and a OneToOne relationship with ``User``.

Create ``people/serializers.py`` and paste the following code::

    from django_basecrm import get_contacts, create_contact
    from django_basecrm.serializers import ContactModelSerializer

    class PersonSerializer(ContactModelSerializer):
        is_organization = False
        description = 'info'

        def get_email(self, obj):
            return obj.user.email

        class Meta:
            model = 'people.Person'

Things to note:

* We're extending ``ContactModelSerializer``; there's also a ``DealModelSerializer`` that behaves identically but is set for the ``deal`` endpoint's fields
* We set the ``is_organization`` field to ``False`` explicitly; assuming your model doesn't have a field (or property) with the same name, this will never be automatically overridden.
* The ``description`` field is set to get the value of your object's ``info`` field at runtime
* The ``phone`` field will similarly get the value of your object's ``phone`` property at runtime; we don't need to specify it as the fields are identically named
* The ``email`` field, although not explicitly defined, will be populated by the return value of the ``get_email`` method. Any ``get_*`` method will always take priority in setting the serializer value for the related field.
* The ``Meta.model`` attribute is set to a string, **contianing both the app_name and the model_name** -- any other string format will fail. It is however possible to specify a class directly (e.g. ``model = Person``).
* Note that you can also specify ``fields`` as an attribute to the Meta subclass; this will override the serializer's list of fields

Once you've got this far, you really only need to call the functions, perhaps creating a module within your ``people`` app to offer ``create_person_from_object`` methods and the like.

An example ``get_or_create`` function for a BaseCRM contact, using the above models and serializers, might look like:::

    def get_or_create_person(person_id):
        person = Person.objects.get(pk=person_id)
        base_contacts = django_basecrm.get_contacts(email=person.user.email))
        if len(base_contacts) > 1:
            # This shouldn't happen if we enforce email uniqueness in Django
            raise Exception()
        elif len(base_contacts) == 1:
            base_contact = base_contacts[0]
        else:
            serialized_person = PersonSerializer(person) # This is the serializer we defined above
            base_contact = django_basecrm.create_contact(serialized_person.to_dict())
        return base_contact


Contribute
----------

Contributions are very welcome. Please fork and submit pull requests, with all code covered by unit tests as per the existing code.

Commit message:

Drop support for Python2, Django < 1.11

README.rst, after:

.. image:: https://badge.fury.io/py/django-basecrm.svg
    :target: https://badge.fury.io/py/django-basecrm

.. image:: https://travis-ci.org/yunojuno/django-basecrm.svg?branch=master
    :target: https://travis-ci.org/yunojuno/django-basecrm

==============
Django Basecrm
==============

A Django app that connects to the `BaseCRM API <https://dev.futuresimple.com/>`_ (v2)

**This package is now Python3 only, and supports Django 1.11 and above. For previous versions please refer to the Python2 branch.**

A lightweight Django app to wrap the `requests <http://docs.python-requests.org/en/latest/>`_ library and provide easy endpoints for the BaseCRM API.

Note that this is not a **complete** client SDK; it's a helper app that has the functionality we needed. Contributions gratefully accepted.

The ``utils`` module provides a ``request()`` method that allows less config-heavy calls to the BaseCRM API, relying on settings while still allowing all options to be passed and/or overridden, both for ``requests`` and for the API endpoint itself. There are also helpers to ``parse()`` and ``count()`` the results (``parse`` strips the metadata, while ``count`` returns the server-side count pre pagination).

The ``helpers`` module also provides some higher level methods for interacting with the ``contacts``, ``deals``, ``pipeline`` and ``stages`` endpoints (and the top level ``__init__`` module exposes these). There's also a setting for retrieving and caching the stages for a pipeline (only 1 supported currently).

Features
--------

* Low configuration overhead, so it's easy to call API methods from anywhere in your code
* Pre-submission validation for ``CREATE`` and ``UPDATE`` calls will raise catchable custom exceptions
* Flexible serializers make creating BaseCRM objects from Django ORM objects trivial

Current Limitations
-------------------

* Only a single pipeline is currently supported.
* Stages and pipelines are, by default, cached at the app level (in memory), with no cachebusting method exposed.
* No ``DELETE`` calls are implemented
* ``CREATE`` and ``UPDATE`` are only implemented on ``contacts`` and ``deals`` endpoints
* ``GET`` is only implemented for ``contacts``, ``deals``, ``notes``, ``pipelines`` and ``stages``
* Serializers are only used one-way; they do not deserialize
* Probably many others...

Installation
------------
You can install Django-BaseCRM from PyPI with...::

    pip install --upgrade django-basecrm

Setup
-----
At a minimum, you will need to add the following to your ``settings.py``::

    BASECRM_API_URL='https://api.getbase.com/v2/'
    BASECRM_API_KEY=xxxx
    BASECRM_INSTANTIATE_ON_START=False # If this is set to True, the pipeline ID and stage IDs will be retrieved when the app is started for the first time, and then held in memory

...putting your own API key instead of ``xxx``, obv. Note that the API url is fully qualified, including **the protocol** and **trailing slash**.

You'll also need to add this app to your ``INSTALLED_APPS``; it doesn't really matter where (in terms of ordering):::

    INSTALLED_APPS = [
        ...
        'django_basecrm',
        ...
    ]

Next, you'll probably want to extend the serializers to cater for your models.

For example, let's imagine you have an app called ``people`` that contains a your custom ``User`` profile model called ``Person``, that represents the contacts you want to track in Base.

Let's also imagine that your model has an attribute for ``info``, a ``@property`` for ``phone`` and a OneToOne relationship with ``User``.

Create ``people/serializers.py`` and paste the following code::

    from django_basecrm import get_contacts, create_contact
    from django_basecrm.serializers import ContactModelSerializer

    class PersonSerializer(ContactModelSerializer):
        is_organization = False
        description = 'info'

        def get_email(self, obj):
            return obj.user.email

        class Meta:
            model = 'people.Person'

Things to note:

* We're extending ``ContactModelSerializer``; there's also a ``DealModelSerializer`` that behaves identically but is set for the ``deal`` endpoint's fields
* We set the ``is_organization`` field to ``False`` explicitly; assuming your model doesn't have a field (or property) with the same name, this will never be automatically overridden.
* The ``description`` field is set to get the value of your object's ``info`` field at runtime
* The ``phone`` field will similarly get the value of your object's ``phone`` property at runtime; we don't need to specify it as the fields are identically named
* The ``email`` field, although not explicitly defined, will be populated by the return value of the ``get_email`` method. Any ``get_*`` method will always take priority in setting the serializer value for the related field.
* The ``Meta.model`` attribute is set to a string, **contianing both the app_name and the model_name** -- any other string format will fail. It is however possible to specify a class directly (e.g. ``model = Person``).
* Note that you can also specify ``fields`` as an attribute to the Meta subclass; this will override the serializer's list of fields

Once you've got this far, you really only need to call the functions, perhaps creating a module within your ``people`` app to offer ``create_person_from_object`` methods and the like.

An example ``get_or_create`` function for a BaseCRM contact, using the above models and serializers, might look like:::

    def get_or_create_person(person_id):
        person = Person.objects.get(pk=person_id)
        base_contacts = django_basecrm.get_contacts(email=person.user.email))
        if len(base_contacts) > 1:
            # This shouldn't happen if we enforce email uniqueness in Django
            raise Exception()
        elif len(base_contacts) == 1:
            base_contact = base_contacts[0]
        else:
            serialized_person = PersonSerializer(person) # This is the serializer we defined above
            base_contact = django_basecrm.create_contact(serialized_person.to_dict())
        return base_contact


Contribute
----------

Contributions are very welcome. Please fork and submit pull requests, with all code covered by unit tests as per the existing code.
